what is lepidolite?

Lepidolite is a Phyllosilicate mineral from the mica group. It was first called Lilalite because of its lavender 
coloring. It comes in shades of lilac and pink and even purple-grey. It is often found in scaly smaller aggregates 
and is known for its high levels of lithium. The meaning of Lepidolite is said to help with emotional balance and 
inner peace.

Healing Properties

The Stone of Transition, The Peace Stone, the Grandmother Stone – Lepidolite comes with a handful of names, all 
that speaks to its sense of sweet nurturing and ability to stabilize the soul. Lepidolite is an excellent stone 
at clearing out blockages and nudging you towards a place where you can connect to your higher self. It’s an 
essential amulet to have at hand during times of challenging change or when working to overcome anxious moods and 
climbing tension.

physical properties

While Lepidolite is a dream at helping heal emotional overdrive, it also works wonders on the physical body too. 
Give your immune system a bountiful boost by inviting Lepidolite into your life. As a stone known for reducing 
stress factors and anxiety, Lepidolite also gets to work making sure the nervous system is in complete harmony so 
you can deal with anything that comes your way. The gentle joyous stone also cuts down on the harmful side effects 
of electromagnetic pollution, chasing away the smog so you stay protected and don’t feel like you are feeling your 
way through a blanket of emotional fog. Lepidolite has also been known to help numb sciatica and neuralgia. It is 
also said to reduce problems associated with Alzheimer’s. Finally, among all its amazing traits, Lepidolite can 
help to stabilize moods, cut back on PMT, and help the body and mind deal with changes brought on by hormonal 
cycles and the menopause.

metaphysical properties

In the spiritual sense, Lepidolite is an amazing energy cleanser and ever ready to get to work on bringing the 
chakras into bright and bountiful balance. Rich in spirituality, the Lepidolite Stone can help to clear any 
blockages from the Heart Chakra, the Third Eye Chakra, and the Crown Chakra. These three chakras are some of the 
gateways we need for divine connection with higher plains. When they are blocked they can affect our sense of 
inner wisdom, intuition, trust, capability for love, and ability to see what the universe wants from us and where 
our place in this world is. This stone is all about helping you to leap forward, it preps you for a future free 
from mental and emotional blocks, ensuring you reach a place both here on earth and in the cosmic realm where you 
can thrive.

used for

For those looking to Lepidolite to reclaim their center and to cut out the chaos of overwhelm and anxiety, there 
are many ways you can invite this stone into your life. Whether you choose to wear Lepidolite in the form of 
gemstone jewelry or if you pick a pretty hunk of this intricate lavender quartz for your altar or tumbled stones 
to be a part of your spiritual practice, here are all the amazing ways you can say yes to universal love, inner 
peace, and swapping out calamity for a calm and balanced life.